#summary Import File Format description
#labels Featured,Phase-Design

= Introduction =

In order to add more data into the program database first one need to crawl into the game manuals and write down the data into a computer-friendly format. In this section I'll describe this format.

= Clan data format =
To describe a Clan you need to provide a lot of data, that is divided
in several files. In this guide we will follow one by one the steps needed to import the Scorpion clan into the program.

== The Family file ==
First open a text editor and create a new file called Scorpion_Families.txt,
in this file we will put the data that represents the Scorpion Clan families in this format:

{{{
#
FamilyName
FamilyAttributeBonus
1
#
}}}

and repeat for each family, that will results in:

{{{
#
Bayushi
agility
1
#
Shosuro
awareness
1
#
Soshi
intelligence
1
#
Yogo
willpower
1
}}}

Save the file.

== The School Skills file ==
Next we need a file called Skills_Scorpion.txt, each record will contain the information about a Clan School and its starting skills in this format:

{{{
#
SchoolName
SkillName (Emphasis), OtherSkill ?2, *wildcard
#
}}}

The second line has each skill separed by a comma, and any emphases is placed between parentesis. Also if you need the starting rank to be higher than 1, add ?2 or ?3, etc.. at the end.

When the manual don't specify a named skill but a category you can add a wildcard. Some wildcards are:

{{{
*any    = Any Skills
*bugey  = Any Bugei skills
*high   = Any High skills
*weapon = Any Weapon skills
}}}

and so on...

The result is:

{{{
#
Bayushi Bushi School
Courtier (Manipulation), Defense, Etiquette, Iaijutsu, Kenjutsu, Sincerity, *any
#
Soshi Shugenja School
Calligraphy (Cipher), Courtier, Etiquette, Lore_(Theology), Spellcraft, Stealth, *any
#
Bayushi Courtier School
Calligraphy, Courtier (Gossip), Etiquette, Investigation, Sincerity (Deceit), Temptation, *high
#
Shosuro Infiltrator School
Acting, Athletics, Ninjutsu, Sincerity, Stealth (Sneaking) ?2, *any
}}}